NeRF review (#105)
creatis-myriad/creatis-myriad.github.io: collections/_posts/2023-01-31-NeRF.md

---
layout: review
title: "NeRF: Representing Scenes as Neural Radiance Fields for View Synthesis"
tags: deep-learning scene-representation view-synthesis
author: "Maylis Jouvencel"
cite:
    authors: "Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Matthew Tancik, Jonathan T. Barron, Ravi Ramamoorthi, Ren Ng"
    title:   "NeRF: Representing Scenes as Neural Radiance Fields for View Synthesis"
    venue:   "ECCV 2020"
pdf: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.08934.pdf"
---

# Notes
* Link to code, full paper and more examples in the [project page](https://www.matthewtancik.com/nerf)

> # Highlights

Reviewer: Maybe it would be nice to add some context because I think that most of the participants will not be familiar with this topic =)

* The objective of the paper is to synthesize novel views of complex scenes
* The authors use a MLP to optimize a continuous volumetric scene function on a set of 2D input views.

# Method

![](/collections/images/NeRF/pipeline.jpg)

*Figure 1: pipeline proposed by the authors*

For one input camera view, the authors sample a set of coordinates along the camera ray and feed it to the network, which produces the color and density at these locations.

New output views are rendered and gradient descent is used to optimize the model.

> 

Reviewer: I suggest making this part clearer by separating training and inference phase.

## Neural Radiance Fields

> Each scene is represented by an 8 fully-connected layers MLP network $$ F_\Theta : (\boldsymbol{x},\boldsymbol{d}) \rightarrow (RGB,\sigma)$$ with $$x$$ being the postion, $$d$$ the direction and $$\sigma$$ the density of a sampled point.

Reviewer: I would suggest rephrasing this part like this:
```suggestion
One MLP network with 8 fully-connected layers is learned for each scene. This MLP learn to map a position $$x$$ and a direction $$d$$ to a density $$\sigma$$ and color values $$RGB$$ :
$$ F_\Theta : (\boldsymbol{x},\boldsymbol{d}) \rightarrow (RGB,\sigma)$$
```

The inputs are mapped to a higher dimensional space by using high frequency functions before being fed to the network:
$$ \gamma(p) = (\sin(2^{0}\pi p),\cos(2^{0}\pi p), ... ,\sin(2^{L-1}\pi p),\cos(2^{L-1}\pi p)  ) $$.

This enables the learning of higher frequencies variations in the object.

#### Hierarchical sampling
Instead of sampling regularly along a camera ray, and in order to avoid uselessly sampling a lot of free space, two networks are trained.

A first "coarse" network is trained on a widely spaced set of points. This gives information about the density in certain area of the the space. Then the "fine" network is trained on points sampled on areas that are expected to contain more visible content.

This enables a more efficient sampling of the space.

## Implementation

The loss used is : 
$$ \mathcal{L} = \sum_{r\in \mathcal{R}} [ \|\hat{C}_c(\boldsymbol{r}) - C(\boldsymbol{r}) \|_{2}^{2} + \|\hat{C}_f(\boldsymbol{r}) - C(\boldsymbol{r}) \|_{2}^{2}] $$

with $$\mathcal{R}$$ the set of rays in each batch, $$C(\boldsymbol{r})$$, $$\hat{C}_c(\boldsymbol{r})$$ and $$\hat{C}_f(\boldsymbol{r})$$ the RGB colors for ground truth, coarse and fine volume predicted.

> Note that the density does not appear in this loss, it is used to compte de RGB colors.

Reviewer: Maybe a little mistake here
```suggestion
Note that the density does not appear in this loss, it is used to compute the RGB colors.
```
